>> Will Sentance: So, before we get
into how high order functions work,
we are going to see a metaphor,
a metaphor for
why we have a high order
function in the first place.
So, function 10 squared, no input, returns
10*10, sounds like a very useful function,
I am sure you can already agree.
What is the syntax of this function, Kara?
What is the wording of this function?
It's a function 10 squared,
no input and returns 10 by 10,
how do we declare the function?
What's the first word for
to declare a function, Kara?
>> Kara: Function.
>> Will Sentance: Function
great there it is function, and
what could we call it, Kara?
>> Clara: 10squared.
>> Will Sentance: Nice Clara.
Ambiguous name, 10 squared, and
does it take any parameters?
Cray, any parameters for it?
No, correct.
And then in the body of the function,
what do we add?
Whatever returned.
10 by 10, such a useful function.
Do you agree?
No, it's a terribly useless function.
>> Group: [LAUGH]
>> Will Sentance: This is a useless
function, come on.
It's a useless function.
10 squared evaluates to 100, perfect.
Now, what if though,
here's a more useful function, 9 squared.
Griffin, how would I make 9 squared?
>> Griffin: Same thing,
you just change the inputs.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah,
what about 100 squared, Lindsey?
>> Lindsey: Same thing,
you just change the numbers.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah,
I don't want to really drag this out.
Barb, what about 2,000 squared?
>> Group: [LAUGH]
>> Barb: Same thing.
>> Will Sentance: How much
longer can I drag this out?
We could go for a while.
We're breaking some
sort of principle here.
What principle are we breaking
as I cover all these functions?
What principle are we breaking everyone?
>> Group: Don't repeat yourself.
>> Will Sentance: Don't repeat yourself.
As developers the reason we have functions
in the first place, is to wrap up some
functionality that we wanna reuse and then
we can refer to it just by it's label.
And only write out the functionality once.
So we're constantly try to avoid repeating
ourselves, not because we're lazy but
also because it makes for far more
readable code, far more reusable code.
We don't wanna be rewriting code because
it makes it hard, well, this functionality
is the same as here, but I've gotta change
it in both places, this is problematic.
So instead I write, what could I do here?
Right now, 9 squared, 9 squared.
We've got a problem.
We're breaking this dry principle.
What could be do instead here, Griffin.
>> Griffin: You could do function
n squared for input of n.
>> Will Sentance: So tell me more
abstractly what am I, [LAUGH] here we go.
No, nobody get that pun, all right.
Tell me more abstractly, abstractly, no.
Tell me more.
What are we doing here in a sense?
>> Griffin: Would you be
I guess modulizing it and
being able-
>> Will Sentance: I like that,
you're making your code more resusable.
>> Griffin: Yeah you're able
to call that function any time
you want a number squared.
>> Will Sentance: Very nice,
that's exactly right,
we can generalize the function.
We can create a function.
It's gonna be so yeah, yeah, obviously
we're not gonna create 10 squared,
100 squared.
No, this is the very essence of
why we have high order functions.
We're gonna see in a second here
we've created a function squareNum,
and left a place holder.
You see every now and then I realize
I should be pointing up here because
everyone online just like well
yeah to the edge of my computer.
There it is.
Here, squareNum function.
I left a placeholder and then it's
only when I invoke call, execute,
run that squareNum function with 10,
9, 100, I get to it dynamically.
At the same time, create the function
effectively 10 squared, 9 squared.
And then call it at the same time.
So at my definition stage of the function.
So functions have 2 stages,
definition and execution.
And my definition stage, where I stored
a memory, I leave a placeholder.
Like a kinda I don't know yet
what data I'm gonna apply this to yet.
So just leave it blank for now.
And I'll figure out when I run
the function, what actual specific number,
my data,
I'm gonna apply this functionality to.
Okay, this is making our function
cleaner and more efficient.
But this is obvious.
It turns out well its obvious but
it's fairly obvious.
It turns out,
we may not only want to leave some
of our data general until
we call the function.
In other words leave a placeholder for
some of our data,
in the definition and only when we
run the function determine what data
I wanna apply my multiply
by itself functionality to.
It turns out I might also
want to leave a placeholder.
I might want to leave for now unknown,
some of my specific functionality
until I call my function.
I may not just wanna say,
leave a placeholder for my data,
I may also wanna leave a placeholder
to be determined later, for
some of my actual specific functionality,
and then only determine what that
functionality is, when I actually go
ahead and call, run the function.
Here I determine my data,
10,9,8 when I run the function.
What if I were to determine
some of my functionality,
only when I run the function.
That's very powerful and
that is what we're gonna see is
the essence of higher order functions.